---
title: Cheat sheet for notetaking in Markdown
type: Note
keywords: cheat sheet notetaking markdown beginner
tags: #markdown #formatting
---

# Cheat sheet for notetaking in Markdown
This is a cheat sheet intended for quickly looking up cool ways to format my notes and other media.
## Before the Note
At the top of a file, metadata should be added to categorize, organize and create structure in the files. The following properties can and should be considered to add.
```
---
title: Title of the file
type: Note
keywords: hello world
tags: #tag1 #tag2
---
```
### Special Properties in Foam
- the `title` property will assign the name to the note that you will see in the graph, regardless of the filename or the first heading (also see how to [[write-notes-in-foam]])
- the `type` property can be used to style notes differently in the graph (also see [[graph-visualization]])
- the `tags` property can be used to add tags to a note (see [[tags-and-tag-explorer]])

## Making the Note
In order to make notes easy to read, proper formatting should be applied. The following means of formatting are available in almost all Markdown interpreters.
# Heading 1
## Heading 2
### Heading 3
#### Heading 4
##### Heading 5
###### Heading 6  

### Paragraph 
Next to heading, the paragraph can be formatted. Text can be **Bold** and  and *italic*.
> Text can also be put in blockquotes
> > Or multiple ones

List are another way to add organization
- Unordered lists use a dash
* An asterisk
+ or a plus
  + By pressing tab, is is indented

1) Making ordered lists is equally as easy.
2) Super easy

Information might be processed by the Markdown code should be added in code blocks.
```
This is a code block which is not formatted.
```

***

A line can also be added to separate text blocks.

### External sources
References can link to external addresses, like [Google](http://google.com)  or more direct <http://google.com>.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[write-notes-in-foam]: how-to/write-notes-in-foam.md "Writing Notes"
[graph-visualization]: features/graph-visualization.md "Graph Visualization"
[tags-and-tag-explorer]: features/tags-and-tag-explorer.md "Tags and Tag Explorer"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"